# Improving-the-Prediction-of-Heart-Attacks-based-on-medical-test-and-diagnostics-tests
# Overview
This task focused on using classification algorithms to predict heart attacks based on medical and diagnostics tests utilizing Python's robustness and Azure MLD's cloud-based platform. The analysis was performed on the Dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. This dataset, ideal for classification tasks, contains rich attributes like Gender, impulse, Pressure high, pressure low, Glucose, Troponin, lass.
The goal is to find the best model for heart attack prediction by analyzing and comparing various classification algorithms using a sizable dataset of relevant health data and improving patient satisfaction and optimizing healthcare resources.
# Data Cleaning and Transformation
The data processing involved handling missing values, detecting outliers, and encoding data. Missing values, identified as question marks, were addressed using mode imputation for categorical variables and KNN imputation for more diverse variables. The dataset had a substantial number of outliers, managed by winsorizing numerical columns and using robust modeling methods. Categorical variables were transformed using One Hot Encoding, and numerical features were standardized using StandardScaler from sklearn. The processed data was then split into training and testing sets.
# EDA
The dataset underwent further exploration using Correlation Matrix. Two classification algorithms (KNN, Decision Tree) were applied, with KNN showing a good performance score of approximately 98% accuracy and a high ROC-AUC score, indicating effective class separation and robustness against overfitting.
# Recommendation
Based on the results of the classification using both a K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) classifier and a Decision tree Classifier, I would propose that using a Decision Tree for predicting the presence of heart attack as it has great classification report. The Decision Tree Classification has a higher prediction accuracy (98%) compared to the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) classifier (64%). This means that the model can correctly predict the probability of a patient having heart attack or not.
However, the medical practitioner can predict the presence of heart attack from the age, kcm and troponin due to strong correlation between the three variables and class column. The model's performance is great.
